# Overview of SciDB Large Scale Array Storage, Processing and Analysis
## ABSTRACT
SciDB is a new open-source data management system intended primarily for use in application domains that
involve very large (petabyte) scale array data; for example, scientific applications such as astronomy, remote sensing and climate modeling, bio-science information management, as well as commercial applications such as risk management systems in the financial services sector, and the analysis of web log data. In this talk we will describe our set of motivating examples and use them to explain the features of SciDB. We then provide a snapshot of the project ‘in flight’, describing our novel storage manager, array data model, query language, and extensibility frameworks.
## INTRODUCTION
In this paper we introduce and describe a new data management system; SciDB. We begin by (1) explaining the motivations for SciDB, which lie in serving the needs of the community of scientific users with very large scale, and algorithmically sophisticated, data management problems. Then we (2) move on to describe the features and functionality of our system: our data model, query language, extensibility framework, and (3) our overall architecture. In brief, SciDB is built to support an array data model and query language with facilities that allow users to extend our system with new scalar data types and array operators. We then proceed to (4) sketch our system’s architecture and highlight certain design features. We envision SciDB as a massively parallel storage manager that is able (where possible) to parallelize large scale array processing algorithms. We conclude the paper (5) with a review of our project in-flight.
